Now we achieved a lot throughout this module
but before we leave yet to the next module, there's one thing I want to add here real quick. In our project
here
if I add a new post like this, some content and I save that post, it's added and if I now delete that
post, it stays there,
right
and if we have a look at our server side log, we actually get an error there.
We see that,
well some complex error is thrown here,
something went wrong and we can actually see that a cast to object that failed for value null.
So essentially what failed is we passed null as an ID for the post which we want to delete and we
can see that if we go to the network tab of our developer tools, there we got two requests at the bottom,
we close this and we see if we got one pending request which seemed to have failed and we didn't even get
a response here.
Now the reason for us not getting a response here is that we don't really handle an error case on
our server side application,
so here when we reach out to mongodb or to mongoose to delete a post, then we only handle the then
so the success case and not really the case that this could fail and it did fail because as I said, the
ID we passed was null,
we can see that here, we see that is the request we send and if we have a look at that, this is the url
we sent it to, API posts
null.
And that makes a lot of sense because if we go to our client side code, when we add a new post here in
the posts service, we create a post with ID null and we instantly add this post to our frontend application,
to the posts there.
Now we actually do that once we got a success response from the server and that actually means that
it was saved in the database
but of course we're not using the ID which is dynamically generated on the server,
we're not updating that ID in our local post but that is exactly what we need to do.
We're storing a new post on the server in the database and this is proven by the fact that if I reload
my frontend application, the post is there
and now we can also delete it because now we've fetched that ID which is part of the database or which
was created for that database but we don't do this when the post is created the first time.
Now there are two ways of solving this,
the first approach is that in add post, in the posts service, whenever we got the success response,
we actually call get posts.
We could do this,
this would fetch the updated posts and update our posts in our frontend application. We could do this
but it's also kind of redundant, why would we fetch and update all posts if we simply added one post?
So a better approach might be to simply get back the ID of the created post and use that here in the
add post method
and for that we can go to app.js, to the route where we do create a new post and here on the save
method,
we can actually add a then block here too and here in that then block, we will get a result object with
information about the result of this save operation.
Let's log that result for now to see what's inside of it.
This restarted our server,
so the old error is gone
and now let's quickly add a dummy post here,
go back to the backend and we see what we get back, that result actually simply is the post that was
created.
Now that's awesome because here we got that ID we're interested in,
so what we can do is we can simply take our response which we're sending and put it into that then block
so that we send it once we know that we successfully saved this
and again we're not handling errors here yet,
we will do so later.
So for now, we're just doing that
and now besides our success message, we can send back some post ID field which simply contains result
ID
and we can of course also rename result to created post if that's clearer.
So the created post ID,
that is what we're returning as part of our response
and now we can use that in our posts service. There in the subscribe method, we get back the response
data with that nice message.
Now we don't care about the message obviously but that ID, that is really interesting.
So here we can get our ID, the post ID can be fetched from response data and on the response data, we
now know that we also have that post ID field which will hold a string,
so in the post service, we can update our expected return value here to also reflect that
post ID field which is a string and we want to store that post ID value in our post ID constant here
which is not related to that post ID,
we could also name that just ID
and now all we have to do is update the ID of the post we created here. So we can access post ID and
set it equal to the ID we fetched here.
As a side note, if you're wondering how we can edit this constant,
well we don't overwrite the value that is stored on a constant which is this object,
we still have the same object but since objects are reference types in javascript, we can savely access
one of the properties of that object whilst keeping the object itself,
so we only overwrote one value inside of the object not the entire object
hence this is perfectly valid code.
Now the ID was updated and we then stored a post with that updated ID.
Now if we save all, it will automatically restart the server and the angular server, we can add another post
here with more content
and now if we hit save post, it's added and if I hit delete here, it's also deleted and if we now reload
our application, it's gone because now we get the real ID which we need for the database to successfully
delete this,
we get that ID when we create a post.
And now with that, we can move onto the next module where we will continue working on our frontend, make
sure that we can edit posts and do a lot of other cool things to advance our application.